## Fundamentals of Blockchain

- The first concept of blockchain was emerged in 1990 in a research paper 'Time-Stamping of a Digital Document'
- The first block created in a blockchain is called the genesis block, having no previous block hash.
- In a blockchain, the blocks are cryptographically linked together.


## Notes from the original document 'How to time-stamp a Digital Document' published in 1991.

- In this digital world, it is necessary to know when the document was created or last modified.
- What is needed is a method of time-stamping digital documents with the following two properties. First, one must find a way to time-stamp the data itself, without any reliance on the characteristics of the medium on which the data appears, so that it is impossible to change even one bit of the document without the change being apparent. Second, it should be impossible to stamp a document with a time and date different from the actual one.
- The setting for our problem is a distributed network of users, perhaps representing individuals, different companies, or divisions within a company; we will refer to the users as clients. Each client has a unique identification number.
- A "Digital safety-deposit box" is a proposed solution. However, there are some compromises namely privacy, bandwidth and storage, incompetence, and trust are to be accepted.
- Trusted Time-Stamping Service uses some of the following techniques to improve timestamping.
- The way in which this system can be improved is to send the random string of bits (generated by cryptographic one-way functions), instead of the whole data for timestamping.
- With a secure signature scheme available, when the TSS receives the hash value, it appends the date and time, then signs this compound document and sends it to the client.

## Role of SHA256 hash in blockchain
- SHA256 was developed by NSA (National Security Agency).

## Some useful takeaways from MIT's Blockchain semester course
All the things covered till lecture number 4 are mentioned above, as I found those things in 'How to time-stamp a Digital Document' paper.
### Lecture 4:
- Byzantine Fault Tolerance: The ability of a system to be properly functional if any of it's node(s) fail.
- The ledger will be append-only.

### Lecture 5:
- Turing Complete Programming Language: A programming language which allows you to use loops.
- 10^8 Satoshis in 1 btc.
- Original mining reward per new block in Bitcoin blockchain was 50btc.
- Reward halves every 210,000 blocks.

### Lecture 6:
- Etherium has higher inflation rate than Bitcoin.
- Bitcoin has an immutable monetary policy, while Ethereum does not.
- There can be a change in a monetary policy if there is a proposal by core developers.
- Ethereum was introduced in 2015.
- Ethereum Classic is a hard fork of original Ethereum.
- There are some tradeoffs in choosing between single (programming) language platforms and multi language platforms.
- Initial Coin Offering (ICO) helps platforms in gaining inital funding, tokens are issued prior to being functional. Tokens are fungible and tradable. Initial value of these coins is based on anticipation of success or profits in future.
- Contract: promise or performance given in exchange of promise or performance.
